INTRODUCING RHEMAFEAST EXPOSITORY REFRESHING

RHEMAFEAST EXPOSITORY REFRESHING is not a fellowship or church. It is a non-denominational Christian meeting where believers gather to sit at the feet of the Lord to feast on His word. It is the burden of exposing and studying the word of God so as to understand it and to know the Lord more personal, more dearly, and more practically. It is a moment of Revelation, Revival, Restoration, Renewal, Reconciliation and Refreshing through His Word. Bible exposition, worship, and prayers are the major focus of this meeting. It is a meeting for all believers who are sincerely yearning for personal, family, church and national revival.

If the above burden meets your hunger, thirst, and cravings then you have found a place of refuge and refreshing for your soul. Our earnest labour is to see you grow and come to the full knowledge and stature of Christ through the knowledge of Him and His word. RHEMAFEAST EXPOSITORY REFRESHING is the commission God gave to us to present unto you the word of God in its fullness— even the mystery that has been kept hidden for ages and generations, but is now disclosed to the saints. To them God has chosen to make known the glorious riches of this mystery, which is Christ in You, The Hope of Glory.

Christ is our message. This Christ is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. For by Him all things were created: things in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities; all things were created by Him and for Him. He is before all things, and in Him all things hold together. And He is the head of the body, the church; He is the beginning and the firstborn from among the dead, so that in everything He might have the supremacy. For God was pleased to have all His fullness dwell in Him, and through Him to reconcile to Himself all things, whether things on earth or things in heaven, by making peace through His blood, shed on the cross.

Him we preach and proclaim, warning and admonishing everyone and instructing everyone in all wisdom- comprehensive insight into the ways and purposes of God that we may present every person mature, full-grown, fully initiated, complete, and perfect in Christ. To this end we labour every week struggling with all His energy, which so powerfully works in us.

Our purpose is that you may be encouraged in heart and united in love, so that you may have the full riches of complete understanding, in order that you may know the mystery of God, namely, Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.

We teach nothing but this Christ. Our teaching in all the bible passages shall centre on nothing but Christ. We trust as you put into practice all you are learning; you will grow to become like Christ in all wisdom and grace of life. Through your knowledge of Him, you will enter your full inheritance as an heir and co heir with Christ.

For this reason, as you joined us, we will not stop praying for you and asking God to fill you with the knowledge of His will through all spiritual wisdom and understanding. We pray this in order that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and may please Him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to His glorious might so that you may have great endurance and patience, and joyfully giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light.

Attached in your New Timers envelope is a book titled, “GROWING MORNING BY MORNING”. We will be glad if you can take the coming days to read and summarize it. Sure, it will help establish your personal devotion and altar with God. We will be glad to hear the insight, grace, help and edifications received from all the materials provided for your nourishment in this pack.

Once again, it with joy of the Lord in our Spirit, we receive you into this family of God. Feel free to call, share and express with us any challenge we can bear with you.
