




Parable Of The
LOST SHEEP
Unveiling the Heart of God for the Lost Souls






By
CHUKWUMA KESKA NNAMANI










COPYWRITE

Copyright © 2024 PASTORCHUX

All rights reserved
The characters and events portrayed in this book are fictitious. Any similarity to real persons, living or dead, is coincidental and not intended by the author.

No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without express written permission of the publisher.

Cover design by: DANREC Media
12 Nnengene Street, Achara Layout, Enugu
2348060313898; 2348063468904

Printed in the Enugu States of Nigeria

Most Scripture quotations, unless otherwise indicated, are taken from the Holy Bible, New International Version®, NIV®. Copyright ©1973, 1978, 1984, 2011 by Biblica, Inc.™ Used by permission of Zondervan. All rights reserved worldwide. www.zondervan.com
DEDICATION
This book is especially Dedicated to my daughter in the Lord and her husband Mr. and Mrs. Ugochukwu Aliorji who yielded to the gracious hands of the Lord as missionaries along with all other missionaries in all the nations of the world seeking for the lost souls of our heavenly Father. Your labour of love for the kingdom will never be in vain.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
I will not stop thanking God for the gift of men who labour day and night to see that the burden the Lord has entrusted in our hands is faithfully discharged. Bro. Okwuchukwu Asonye, Sis. Chineye Uzochukwu, and Bro. Vitalis Heenve are rare gems.

Special thanks to Sis. Ijeoma Ethel Chukwuma, my life partner for your unquantifiable solidarity in this call and labour for the kingdom mandate. May the Lord continue to make you an effective helper indeed.






















Table of Contents:
1.	Introduction
2.	The value of one soul that is lost 		Luke 15:3-7
3.	Leaving 99 to go for one soul that is lost 	Luke 15:3-7
4.	The joy of finding the lost sheep		Luke 15:3-7
5.	The joy of finding the lost sheep 		Luke 15:3-7
6.	The joy of finding the lost sheep 		Luke 15:5-6
7.	More rejoicing in heaven 			Luke 15:3-7
8.	One sinner who repents 			Luke 15:3-7
































THE VALUE OF ONE SOUL THAT IS LOST Luke 15:3-7
 Then Jesus told them this parable: "Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. Does he not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it? And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, 'Rejoice with me; I have found my lost sheep.' I tell you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent. NIV

One of the teaching methods of Jesus in pinning eternal truth deep into the hearts of men is parable. There are truths only stories can illuminate as polished diamonds rather than just a mere stating of fact. A man may forget principles but hardly will he forget stories. Stories help one to remember principles.

In His story, Jesus used what they knew to unveil spiritual truth. The context emanated from the muttering or complaining of the Pharisees and teachers of the law who were amazed seeing the tax collectors and sinners gathering around Jesus to hear the word of God. An awful eye saw it was seeing Jesus welcomed and ate with them. For these men, it was incomprehensible and irreconcilable for such a holy man to identify with sinners. The scene generated the complaints. As a wise teacher, Jesus with a fitted illustration took the occasion to unveil to them the very heart of the prodigal Father who does not desire that such precious souls would perish.

Possession and losing- "Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them.
Jesus asserts a supposition. Implying, it is what any of his listeners could possibly do. Firstly, such a man has something in his possession specifically a sheep. They were a hundred sheep. Sheep is not just a decoration. Surely or possibly the sheep is this man’s wealth. It is his treasure. It is from this sheep that the man feeds and attends to his family's needs. The sheep is his occupation. It is his life. He has no other business than rearing the sheep to sell them and make a living. To have a sheep for this man is to have a treasurable possession.

And loses one of them.
The man has a hundred sheep but he only lost one of them. Losing one to a hundred seemingly looks insignificant. It was not even up to five or ten. It was just one. The man understood the value of that only one that got lost and its implications. Other people might not understand but the owner did know the implication of one lost sheep. That one if sold, will make more money for him. That only one, if allowed to bear children could raise another set of generations of sheep altogether. That one that is lost is a potential carrier of generations in its womb. Once it is lost all that is in his loins and generation will be lost forever. It is not just him that will be lost all that it was supposed to bring forth in life will be lost. The meat or money it would have given to the owner is lost forever. The company it would have given other sheep would be lost. Its purpose would be eternally lost.

To date, the church has not come to understand the value of one soul before God. From Sunday to Sunday, we give much emphasis on money, service, liturgy, decoration, activities, doctrine, etc. but not on the soul. Even when the Lord adds one soul to the church, no one cares until he slips back into the world. There is no record of how many souls the church loses weekly, monthly, and yearly. Nobody cares for the salvation of the perishing souls in our family, office, schools, market, or neighborhood.

Beloved, do you understand the value of one soul before the eyes of its Maker? One soul is far in price than all the riches of the whole world put together. One lost soul is a great tragedy in the kingdom of God. He represents not just a soul but a generation of souls in the kingdom of God. Out of one Abraham came a people called Israel. The loss of Abraham would have been the loss of the people of Israel.

One saved Samaritan woman brought the city of Samaria to the feet of Jesus. One saved Paul preached and produced generations of gentile churches. One Philip conquered the city of Samaria with the gospel.

How are you laboring for just one soul? Have you saved one soul since this year? Never forget, “There is joy in heaven over one soul who repents.”

Lord show me this mercy unto by opening my eyes to see the lostness of a soul. If I can see the loss of a soul then I can see the loss of the world. If I am not worried about the loss of one soul even when the hundred is lost I will not be moved. If I am careless in the loss of one, gradually all will be lost. If I do not take for granted the loss of one then, I will not even suffer the loss of any at all.

LEAVING 99 TO GO FOR ONE SOUL THAT IS LOST Luke 15:3-7

Then Jesus told them this parable: 4 "Suppose one of you has a hundred sheep and loses one of them. Does he not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it?

It takes a correct shepherd or flock owner who understands the value of a soul to leave the 99 out of the hundred sheep that are safe and go for the one that was lost. The question Jesus is asking is “Does he not leave the ninety-nine in the open country and go after the lost sheep until he finds it?” His focus and target becomes on the one lost sheep. Not that others are not important but they are safe, secure, and sound and therefore, do not need attention. It is the loss that needs urgent attention. Others must be left to go in search of the lost one. Even though it is one yet, its value is much and cannot be left to be lost.

Until he finds it
One thing that marks the attitude of this good shepherd is his deliberate and determined effort to find the lost sheep. He cannot relent until he finds it. The word “until” implies that he cannot give up till he finds it. He would do everything in his ability to get this lost sheep. Whatever it will cost him he will be ready to pay the price so long as he finds the lost sheep. Careless searching can not achieve this. Only unreserved and relentless determined search not willing to entertain any form of excuse could achieve this.

He leaves 99 to go after one. Finding the lost, he must go after it. The lost is already lost it cannot come back. It is the shepherd that must go after it. In its folly, it was lost. “The worst is that a lost sheep does not know it is lost. It is only the owner that knows that it is lost and is prone to destruction by wild animals.”

This is why he must do everything he can to look for and bring it back to the fold.

This is the kind of divine search for the lost man. It took the Godhead to give up all the eternal glory of the Son for Him to come and become like us. In our wickedness, at thirty years we stripped him naked with thirty-nine strokes of Roman lashes we allowed Him to bleed to death on the cross of Calvary. Despite all these humiliating anathemas, He did not relent or give up until He was able to accomplish the work of our salvation. In every nation, generation, and dispensation through Him, many who are lost are now found. He is still committed to searching for men everywhere in every nation and generation. As a Good Shepherd, He has not ceased searching so long as there is still a single breath of life in one soul on earth. Oh, what an eternal search!

Beloved, how are you committed to leaving the 99 in your family, church, or nation to search for the one precious soul that is lost? How determined are you to leave all in order to find just one soul of our Father’s creation that is already on the path of eternal loss? What practical effort are you making to find a soul? Can you engage your WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, etc, to type a message of salvation message right now to send to perishing souls? Can you get down on your knees to intercede for one soul you know is perishing? Can you send out a certain amount of money to a missionary or mission organization? Can you open your mouth today to preach the gospel in the vehicle, office, school, or neighborhood? What can you do today to save one lost soul? Just ONE SOUL ONLY!

Oh Lord, please shake my heart and move it to see the lost and perishing souls all around me. Give me the grace to leave all to go and search for that one soul that is lost and is on the path to eternal loss. Please deliver me from lukewarmness and religiousness.




THE JOY OF FINDING THE LOST SHEEP Luke 15:3-7

And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, 'Rejoice with me; I have found my lost sheep.'I tell you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent. NIV

In the preceding verse, we noted that one of the characteristics of a good shepherd or flock owner is that he does not take chances or is casual in looking for even one of his sheep that is lost. He does not mind leaving the ninety-nine that is safe and sound to go after the only one missing from the flock. He is determined to find it at all costs.

And when he finds it
This verse five reveals he definitely found it. His labour was not in vain. He was convinced as long as the sheep is not yet devoured by wild beast it will be found. Ignorant of his owner's searching labour, somewhere it will be searching for food in the field. All it will take the shepherd is time and diligence to find the lost sheep. As for finding it, he will because he has made up his mind to find it.

This is the case of God with you and I. It took Him thousands of years to accomplish the salvation of man. However, at the end of the day, He perfected it through the death and atonement of His Son for our sins on the cross of Calvary. Till today, He has not given up or relented from the work of salvation and redemption. Day and night His gracious Spirit is still greatly and graciously working in the hearts of every man to work out His eternal work of salvation.
He joyfully
Finally, in our text, this man found the lost sheep. The first thing that happened to him was a feeling of overflowing joy. Though he has 99 left, finding one lost sheep filled his heart with joy. He was happy because he found the one that was lost. He was joyful because;
1. His effort was not in vain
2. The sheep was not devoured by the wild beast or died because of hunger.
3. The sheep is restored to the fold again
4. It is now his treasurable possession again
5. All his plans and purpose for the sheep will be actualized again.

puts it on his shoulders
We noticed he did not blame the lost sheep. He did not beat nor was he angry with the sheep rather he was joyful. He joyfully put it on his shoulder. Putting it on his shoulder implies;
1. Relationship: Restoration of deep and intimate relationship
2. Grace: The lost sheep has been walking and working all alone by itself but the shepherd will now be the one to carry it anywhere he wants it to go.














THE JOY OF FINDING THE LOST SHEEP Luke 15:3-7
And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, 'Rejoice with me; I have found my lost sheep.'I tell you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent. NIV


Finding the lost but found sheep He carried it home. Before the finding, the lost sheep was in the field or bush alone and prone to dangers of all sorts. Lost from the owner. Lost from the fellowship of others. Lost from pastures. Lost from shade and care. However, once found the owner transported it from the bush to home. What is a home?

1. A Home is where it will be protected.
2. A Home is where it will be sheltered.
3. A Home is where it will be nourished and taken care of.
4. A Home is where it will enjoy the fellowship of other sheep.

All these are what both the lost sheep and the good Shepherd will experience when he finds the lost sheep. Let us not lose sight of the parable. It is not just about the lost sheep but the lost man. For a thousand years, God’s efforts have not been in vain. Each day as He finds just ONE lost soul there is great joy in heaven. He takes that soul on His shoulder again. That precious soul is rescued from the shackles of sin and oppressions of the powers of darkness to the marvelous life of peace, rest, and joy of the Lord. From the domain of the kingdom of darkness, he is transferred into the kingdom of His dear Son. Col 1:13

The Father has delivered and drawn us to Himself out of the control and the dominion of darkness and has transferred us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, AMP.

Beloved, have you experienced this amazing love of the Father? Have you been borne by the eternal shoulder? Have you found rest in the bosom of the Father’s shoulder? Have you entered the eternal love of the Father? Is there a day that all the hosts of the heavenly beings rejoiced because you have been found and brought back into the kingdom of God? He is seeking for you to give you immeasurable rest both in this life and the one to come.

Father thank you for finding me and delivering me from sin, self, Satan, and the system of the world and taking me into the kingdom of your dear Son where there is righteousness, peace, and joy of the Holy Ghost. Please also help me to co-labor with You in finding Your lost souls in the world so that Your joy, my joy, and their joy will be full.
















THE JOY OF FINDING THE LOST SHEEP Luke 15:5-6
And when he finds it, he joyfully puts it on his shoulders and goes home. Then he calls his friends and neighbors together and says, 'Rejoice with me; I have found my lost sheep.'

One of the things this good shepherd did was to take back the lost sheep home. At home, he called his friends and neighbors together saying, “Rejoice with me; I have found my lost sheep.” He was so overwhelmed with joy that he could not bear it alone. He wanted others- his family, friends, and neighbors to be aware of what happened and join him in rejoicing. He did not take the finding of the lost sheep for granted. His rejoicing and calling others to join him shows how great and glad his heart bubbles for finding the lost sheep. If a casual finding, he would not have cared about calling others. Because he valued the one lost sheep so much he could not suspend the joy and therefore, extended his joyful heart to others.

A man’s joy stems from things that mean a lot to him or satisfy his desires. Naturally, the things that give us joy include treasures, achievements, or entertainment. Here one sheep is a great treasure. What inspired this man’s joy was what he would gain from the lost sheep. Also, the sheep was no longer lost. Because if it had lost, it would have been a great generational loss.

He called his friends and neighbors because they would have mourned and sympathized with him over the loss of the sheep. Now he has found it, he still called them to come and rejoice with him. In rejoicing with him, we do not know to the extent. Whether there is a celebration with feasting or just to inform them of his joy. But looking at what was lost, he could decide to feast. The feasting could not be compared with the loss of a generation which the loss of one sheep could have brought to him. He can do anything to celebrate the joy of finding the lost sheep.

Lord give me such a heart of joy and celebration over souls. As men rejoice and celebrate their achievements, assets, and treasures, help me see one saved soul as a great treasure that must be celebrated.

MORE REJOICING IN HEAVEN  Luke 15:3-7

I tell you that in the same way, there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent. NIV

The parable having x-rayed the loss of one sheep, the labour of searching, and rejoicing for finding it, Jesus now explained the spiritual truth that necessitated the earthly story. The story was framed to elucidate why He was welcoming and eating with the tax collectors and sinners. He insists that those tax collectors and sinners are still God’s inheritance but they are lost in the world of sin. And as a Good Shepherd, God who is rich in mercy and out of His great love is still doing everything possible to find them. This is why God in the form of man in Christ came to save the lost man. These are the loss of God. Jesus came and died for their sake. In the same way, the owner of a sheep is radically looking for his lost sheep and would not give up until he finds it, and so is heaven looking for the lost souls- the sinners.

THERE IS MORE REJOICING IN HEAVEN OVER ONE SINNER WHO REPENTS.

The same way a shepherd or flock owner will rejoice for finding his lost sheep and take it home, calling his friends and neighbors, that is the same way there will be great rejoicing in heaven when one lost sinner is found. Jesus said there is more rejoicing. This implies that the rejoicing by the shepherd cannot be compared to the joy that goes on in heaven over one soul that repents.

As children of God, we must be careful to note what brings great joy to heaven. It is not projects and building but repentance. It is not a crowd of members but repentance. It is not big offerings and tithes but repentance. The only thing that gladdens the heart of heaven is repentance. Great projects, activities, wonderful edifices, sound preaching, successful crusades, healings, and deliverances without a repented soul are a great waste in the kingdom. Every preaching and ministration that is not targeted at bringing men to repentance is a waste of ministry. Our labour and co-labour in the place of prayer and preaching must be focused that God will bring repentance to the heart of a lost sinner.

The greatest we can do in life and ministry is labouring to see a sinner repents. This we can achieve by practicing the truth, praying, and preaching the gospel. We must go in search of the lost souls with the gospel of the kingdom. We must present to them that they were created in the image of God but sin has defiled and corrupted His image in man. And that is why man is depraved and lost in all sorts of unrestrained immorality and sensuality. Still more, the inevitable wages for any man who is a captive and servant of sin are death and eternal condemnation. However, God in His mercy has sent His Son to come and atone for our sins and crucify sin in the sinful man. So that whoever believes in His atonement work for His soul will receive eternal life- the very life and likeness of God which man lost in Eden. Any man who hears this message and turns from His wicked ways is a saved sinner. It is such a person who brings joy to heaven.

Beloved, there is a joy in heaven over one soul that repents. Have you repented of your sin? Have you taken a decision not to live by your bad ways again after hearing the gospel and turned to start living by the way and word of God? No soul can bring joy to heaven without repentance. Are you ready to bring great joy to heaven today? Why not quietly in your heart confess your sins to God, and make a decision not to live in sin any longer? Trust His saving and forgiven grace. By faith thank Him for the eternal life which He will impact you. GREAT GRACE!!!

If you have already repented, still know that repentance is continuous. As we hear the message of the kingdom, it comes to bring sanctification. Why not sincerely examine your heart to know if there is still any besetting sin that the Holy Spirit has been convicting you of, it is time to respond to it now. Is there confession, restitution, or secrecy to do away with, why not respond immediately? There will still be joy in heaven for doing this.

Again, your assignment now is to like and share this message on all your social media networks, platforms, and timelines until ONE SINNER reads it and repents and there will be great joy in heaven.

ONE SINNER WHO REPENTS Luke 15:3-7

I tell you that in the same way there will be more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent. NIV

A lost sinner is found when he/she repents. The mark that shows that a lost sinner is found by heaven is when he repents of his sinful ways. To heaven, what determines whether a lost sinner is found or not is repentance. Repentance in the heart of a sinner is what brings joy to heaven. Wherever and whenever a soul turns from sin to God such a soul is found by heaven and there will be great rejoicing.

Repentance has been the royal route back to God. Repentance is what unlocks the doors of the throne of God to a sinful man. Each time a man repents, a relationship is restored with God as seen between the shepherd and the sheep. Repentance is our initial response to the calling and searching voice of the loving Father. Repentance withholds the raging wrath of God over sinful man in every nation and generation.

In the time of Jonah, God had decided that after forty days the whole city of Nineveh, a great and important city would be a rubble. The only thing that could save her was repentance. If they refuse to repent then God’s judgment of destruction will finally come upon them. Fortunately, when they heard the judgment and repented, God also repented of His stern judgment against them.

“Sin brings destruction repentance brings salvation.”

Genuine repentance starts with the realization of sinfulness which leads to a brokenness of heart that leads to confession. In a genuine repentance, there must be a conviction in the heart, confession of wrongs with the mouth, and conversion from bad to good living. It is a roundabout journey from a selfish way to God and His ways. Repentance is a total turnaround from a wrong direction in life to God's direction. It is to personally violate your will and habit over bad things. It is to respond to the truth of God’s word with immediate and careful attention for better.

Repentance in the heart of a sinner is one thing that brings great joy in heaven. Joy only comes to heaven when a sinner repents. Repentance is the evidence of a lost but found soul. No matter all ecclesiastical commitment and activities without repentance, a soul is still lost and there can be no rejoicing in heaven. Heaven is still in serious search of such a lost soul. A soul with a Church profile, position, practice, preaching, participation, etc., yet, without repentance is still a lost soul!

Unfortunately, there are many lost souls in the church today as in the past. When a man is in the church but has not repented, he is a LOST SINNER. No matter what he does for or in the church heaven sees him as lost. He cannot bring great rejoicing to heaven with his works. He cannot even enter nor see the kingdom of God for it is only repentance that is the ticket to the kingdom of God. Matt 4:17

From that time on Jesus began to preach, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near." NIV

Whatever work a man does for God outside repentance is a dead work. In the eyes of eternity, he is a lost soul. What a great peril for a lost man to do God’s work. First, Heaven is looking for such a life. And until heaven finds him/her, there can be no relationship. As good as working for God is, tithing, singing, ushering, donations, preaching, leadership, giving, etc, all these without repentance is a dead and lost work for heaven. A lost sinner can only produce sinful works. All he does is filthy work. Heaven is not rejoicing over them. Cain came with his offering before God, however, God rejected him and then his offering. God saw sin crouching in Cain, and that sin contaminated both Cain and his offering before God.

Beloved, there is a joy in heaven over one soul that repents. Have you repented of your sin? Have you made a decision not to live by your bad ways and turn to start living by the way and word of God?

How are you labouring as a child of God to co-labour with our gracious heavenly Father to bring repentance to men? What is the content of your message and ministry? What gives you joy in ministry? How do you labour in prayer to see sinners turn away from their sins and sincerely come to God? Are you making heaven happy by praying and preaching the gospel of the kingdom? Check your heart to honestly know what you cherish in ministry.

If there must be great rejoicing in heaven, it can only come by our earnest and serious co-labouring with God in groaning in the place of prayer, giving our resources, and going into the world to preach the correct gospel. Let’s labour.

Lord, help me to labour with You in the place of prayers and preaching of the gospel until I see sinners come to repentance in my generation.
